#28390 API design (schedule script) (#30443)
fleetdm/fleet: docs/REST API/rest-api.md

| script_id       | integer | body | **Required**. The ID of the existing saved script to run. |
| host_ids        | array   | body |  List of host IDs.  Required if `filters` not specified. Only one of `host_ids` or `filters` may be included in the request.   |                                            |
| filters | object  | body | See [filters](#filters3). Required if `host_ids` not specified. Only one of `host_ids` or `filters` may be included in the request.   |

> | starts_at       | string  | body | UTC time when the script run is scheduled for. |

Reviewer: `not_before` would be a more accurate / standard field name for this.  We can't guarantee it'll start at the specified time, but we can say it won't run _until_ that time.  We can also add `not_after` later to allow for scheduled jobs to expire.

Author: 👍 I like it.
```suggestion
| not_before       | string  | body | UTC time when the script run is scheduled to begin. |
```

| label_id                          | number  | ID of a label to filter by.  |
| team_id                           | number  | ID of the team to filter by. | 

> Note that if a batch script is scheduled for the future using `not_before`, and hosts are targeted using `filters`, the script will run on any hosts matching the filters _at the time the batch script was added_. To see all targeted hosts, use the [List batch script results](#list-batch-script-results) endpoint.

> 

Reviewer: 👍

}
```

### List batch scripts

Returns a list of batch script executions.

`GET /api/v1/fleet/scripts/batch`

#### Parameters

| Name            | Type    | In   | Description                                                                                    |
| ----            | ------- | ---- | --------------------------------------------                                                   |
| team_id         | integer | query | _Available in Fleet Premium_. Filters to batch script runs for the specified team. |
| status          | string  | query | Filters to batch script runs with this status. Either `"started"`, `"scheduled"`, or "`completed`". |
| page            | integer | query | Page number of the results to fetch. |
| per_page        | integer | query | Results per page. |

#### Example

`GET /api/v1/fleet/scripts/batch`

##### Request body

```json
{
  "team_id": 123,
  "status": "completed"
}
```

##### Default response

`Status: 200`

```json
{

>   "batch_executions": [

Reviewer: Realized we want `batch_execution_id` returned here too because we'll need it when clicking on an item in the batch scripts list, to transition to the batch script details.

Reviewer 2: Will it always be non-null?

>     {

Reviewer 2: `"execution_id"`?

      "script_id": 555,
      "script_name": "my-script.sh",
      "team_id": 123,
      "not_before": "2025-07-01T15:00:00Z",
      "completed_at": "2025-07-06T15:00:00Z",

>       "status": "completed",

Reviewer 2: If a batch has `"status": "started"`, can `"not_before"` be `null` in the case that the batch was run immediately? Seems like this should be the case, so seems like we also need a `"started_at"` field right?

Reviewer 2: If we do keep `status`, seems `canceled` should be an option and not its own field, though better to remove `status` and update to `canceled_at`.

Reviewer 2: sgtm

Reviewer 2: The `canceled_at` / `completed_at` approach dovetails with the "status" of a summary being completely defined by (not_before, started_at,  completed_at, canceled_at) and not having a "status" field.

This suggestion dovetails with the current, "status"-field based approach. Both make sense to me, so given we want to keep `status` this proposal makes a lot of sense

Reviewer 2: decision:
`completed_at` –> `finished_at`
`status.completed` -> `status.finished`
`canceled` flag remains

>       "canceled": false,

Reviewer 2: +1 for `"canceled_at"`

      "targeted_host_count": 12599,
      "ran_host_count": 12345,
      "pending_host_count": 234,
      "errored_host_count": 18,
      "incompatible_host_count": 3,
      "canceled_host_count": 2
    }
  ],
  "meta": {
    "has_next_results": false,
    "has_previous_results": false

>   }

Reviewer: actually no what @jacobshandling said, we seem to do this as a top-level `count` in the actual API responses, let's go with that

`GET /api/v1/fleet/scripts/batch/:batch_execution_id`

#### Parameters

| Name               | Type    | In   | Description                                 |
| ------------------ | ------- | ---- | --------------------------------------------|
| batch_execution_id | string  | path | **Required**. The ID returned from a batch script run. |

#### Example

`GET /api/v1/fleet/scripts/batch/abc-def`

##### Default response

`Status: 200`

```json
{
  "script_id": 555,
  "script_name": "my-script.sh",
  "team_id": 123,
  "not_before": "2025-07-01T15:00:00Z",
  "completed_at": "2025-07-06T15:00:00Z",
  "status": "completed",
  "canceled": false,
  "targeted_host_count": 12599,
  "ran_host_count": 12345,
  "pending_host_count": 234,
  "errored_host_count": 18,
  "incompatible_host_count": 3,
  "canceled_host_count": 2,
}
```

### List hosts targeted in batch script

Returns a list hosts targeted in a batch script run, along with their script execution status.

> `GET /api/v1/fleet/scripts/batch/:batch_execution_id/results`

Author: ```suggestion
`GET /api/v1/fleet/scripts/batch/:batch_execution_id/hosts`
```

Reviewer: I could make a case for either.  The table this comes from is `batch_activity_host_results` 😄 .

#### Parameters

| Name                | Type    | In    | Description                                                                                    |
| --------------------| ------- | ----- | --------------------------------------------                                                   |
| batch_execution_id  | string  | path  | **Required**. The ID returned from a batch script run. |
| status              | string  | query | Filters to hosts with this script status. Either `"ran"`, `"pending"`, `"errored"`, `"incompatible"`, or "`canceled`". |
| page                | integer | query | Page number of the results to fetch. |
| per_page            | integer | query | Results per page. |

#### Example

> `GET /api/v1/fleet/scripts/batch/abc-def/results?status=completed`

Author: ```suggestion
`GET /api/v1/fleet/scripts/batch/abc-def/hosts?status=completed`
```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`GET /api/v1/fleet/scripts/batch/abc-def/host-results?status=completed`
```

##### Default response

`Status: 200`

```json
{
  "hosts": [
    {
      "id": 123,
      "display_name": "Anna's MacBook Pro",
      "script_status": "ran",
      "script_execution_id": "e797d6c6-3aae-11ee-be56-0242ac120002",
      "script_executed_at": "2024-09-11T20:30:24Z",

>       "script_output_preview": "hello world"

Author: ### Dev note

Truncated if over a certain number of characters. [TODO: what did we do for live query result truncation? We should copy that.]

}
```

### List batch scripts

Returns a list of batch script executions.

`GET /api/v1/fleet/scripts/batch`

#### Parameters

| Name            | Type    | In   | Description                                                                                    |
| ----            | ------- | ---- | --------------------------------------------                                                   |
| team_id         | integer | query | _Available in Fleet Premium_. Filters to batch script runs for the specified team. |
| status          | string  | query | Filters to batch script runs with this status. Either `"started"`, `"scheduled"`, or "`completed`". |
| page            | integer | query | Page number of the results to fetch. |
| per_page        | integer | query | Results per page. |

#### Example

`GET /api/v1/fleet/scripts/batch`

##### Request body

```json
{
  "team_id": 123,
  "status": "completed"
}
```

##### Default response

`Status: 200`

```json
{
  "batch_executions": [
    {
      "script_id": 555,

>       "script_name": "my-script.sh",

Author: ```suggestion
      "script_name": "my-script.sh",
      "batch_execution_id": "e797d6c6-3aae-11ee-be56-0242ac120002",
```

| team_id         | integer | query | _Available in Fleet Premium_. Filters to batch script runs for the specified team. |
| status          | string  | query | Filters to batch script runs with this status. Either `"started"`, `"scheduled"`, or "`completed`". |
| page            | integer | query | Page number of the results to fetch. |
| per_page        | integer | query | Results per page. |

#### Example

`GET /api/v1/fleet/scripts/batch`

##### Request body

```json
{
  "team_id": 123,
  "status": "completed"
}
```

##### Default response

`Status: 200`

```json
{
  "batch_executions": [
    {
      "script_id": 555,
      "script_name": "my-script.sh",
      "batch_execution_id": "e797d6c6-3aae-11ee-be56-0242ac120002",
      "team_id": 123,
      "not_before": "2025-07-01T15:00:00Z",
      "completed_at": "2025-07-06T15:00:00Z",
      "status": "completed",
      "canceled": false,
      "targeted_host_count": 12599,
      "ran_host_count": 12345,
      "pending_host_count": 234,
      "errored_host_count": 18,
      "incompatible_host_count": 3,
      "canceled_host_count": 2
    }
  ],
  "meta": {
    "has_next_results": false,
    "has_previous_results": false

>   "count": 1,

Author: ```suggestion
    "count": 1,
```

  "completed_at": "2025-07-06T15:00:00Z",
  "status": "completed",
  "canceled": false,
  "targeted_host_count": 12599,
  "ran_host_count": 12345,
  "pending_host_count": 234,
  "errored_host_count": 18,
  "incompatible_host_count": 3,
  "canceled_host_count": 2,
}
```

### List hosts targeted in batch script

Returns a list hosts targeted in a batch script run, along with their script execution status.

`GET /api/v1/fleet/scripts/batch/:batch_execution_id/host-results`

#### Parameters

| Name                | Type    | In    | Description                                                                                    |
| --------------------| ------- | ----- | --------------------------------------------                                                   |
| batch_execution_id  | string  | path  | **Required**. The ID returned from a batch script run. |
| status              | string  | query | Filters to hosts with this script status. Either `"ran"`, `"pending"`, `"errored"`, `"incompatible"`, or "`canceled`". |
| page                | integer | query | Page number of the results to fetch. |
| per_page            | integer | query | Results per page. |

#### Example

> `GET /api/v1/fleet/scripts/batch/abc-def/host-results?status=completed`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`GET /api/v1/fleet/scripts/batch/abc-def/host-results?status=ran`
```

| team_id         | integer | query | _Available in Fleet Premium_. Filters to batch script runs for the specified team. |
| status          | string  | query | Filters to batch script runs with this status. Either `"started"`, `"scheduled"`, or `"finished"`. |
| page            | integer | query | Page number of the results to fetch. |
| per_page        | integer | query | Results per page. |

#### Example

`GET /api/v1/fleet/scripts/batch`

##### Request body

```json
{
  "team_id": 123,
  "status": "completed"
}
```

##### Default response

`Status: 200`

```json
{
  "batch_executions": [
    {
      "script_id": 555,
      "script_name": "my-script.sh",
      "batch_execution_id": "e797d6c6-3aae-11ee-be56-0242ac120002",
      "team_id": 123,
      "not_before": "2025-07-01T15:00:00Z",
      "finished_at": "2025-07-06T15:00:00Z",
      "started_at": "2025-07-06T14:00:00Z",
      "status": "finished",
      "canceled": false,
      "targeted_host_count": 12599,
      "ran_host_count": 12345,
      "pending_host_count": 234,
      "errored_host_count": 18,
      "incompatible_host_count": 3,

>       "canceled_host_count": 2

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
      "canceled_host_count": 2
      "created_at": "2025-07-01T10:00:00Z"
```

Returns a summary of a batch-run script, including host counts and current status.

> The [Get batch script summary](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/blob/fleet-v4.71.1/docs/REST%20API/rest-api.md#get-batch-script-summary) endpoint is deprecated as of Fleet 4.73. It is maintained for backwards compatibility. Please use this endpoint instead.

`GET /api/v1/fleet/scripts/batch/:batch_execution_id`

#### Parameters

| Name               | Type    | In   | Description                                 |
| ------------------ | ------- | ---- | --------------------------------------------|
| batch_execution_id | string  | path | **Required**. The ID returned from a batch script run. |

#### Example

`GET /api/v1/fleet/scripts/batch/abc-def`

##### Default response

`Status: 200`

```json
{
  "script_id": 555,
  "script_name": "my-script.sh",
  "team_id": 123,
  "not_before": "2025-07-01T15:00:00Z",
  "finished_at": "2025-07-06T15:00:00Z",
  "started_at": "2025-07-06T14:00:00Z",
  "status": "finished",
  "canceled": false,
  "targeted_host_count": 12599,
  "ran_host_count": 12345,
  "pending_host_count": 234,
  "errored_host_count": 18,
  "incompatible_host_count": 3,

>   "canceled_host_count": 2,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  "canceled_host_count": 2,
  "created_at": "2025-07-01T10:00:00Z"
```

`GET /api/v1/fleet/scripts/batch/:batch_execution_id/host-results`

#### Parameters

| Name                | Type    | In    | Description                                                                                    |
| --------------------| ------- | ----- | --------------------------------------------                                                   |
| batch_execution_id  | string  | path  | **Required**. The ID returned from a batch script run. |
| status              | string  | query | Filters to hosts with this script status. Either `"ran"`, `"pending"`, `"errored"`, `"incompatible"`, or "`canceled`". |
| page                | integer | query | Page number of the results to fetch. |
| per_page            | integer | query | Results per page. |

#### Example

`GET /api/v1/fleet/scripts/batch/abc-def/host-results?status=ran`

##### Default response

`Status: 200`

```json
{
  "hosts": [
    {
      "id": 123,
      "display_name": "Anna's MacBook Pro",
      "script_status": "ran",
      "script_execution_id": "e797d6c6-3aae-11ee-be56-0242ac120002",
      "script_executed_at": "2024-09-11T20:30:24Z",

>       "script_output_preview": "hello world"

Reviewer 2: assuming these 2 fields `null` for pending/cancelled/incompatible ?

  "ran": 12345,
  "pending": 234,
  "errored": 18,
  "incompatible": 3,
  "canceled": 2,
  "targeted": 12599,
  "script_id": 555,
  "script_name": "my-script.sh",
  "team_id": 123,

>   "starts_at": "2025-07-01T15:00:00Z",

Author: ```suggestion
  "not_before": "2025-07-01T15:00:00Z",
```

  "completed_at": "2025-07-06T15:00:00Z",

>   "status": "completed",

Author: ### Dev note

Status can be completed, started, or scheduled.

Reviewer 2: Update 8/7 - completed -> finished

  "ran": 12345,
  "pending": 234,
  "errored": 18,
  "incompatible": 3,
  "canceled": 2,
  "targeted": 12599,
  "script_id": 555,
  "script_name": "my-script.sh",
  "team_id": 123,
  "not_before": "2025-07-01T15:00:00Z",
  "completed_at": "2025-07-06T15:00:00Z",
  "status": "completed",
  "cancelled": false,

>   "host_ids": null,
>   "filters": {
>     "status": "online",
>     "query": "abc"
>   }

Author: ```suggestion
```

  "ran": 12345,
  "pending": 234,
  "errored": 18,
  "incompatible": 3,
  "canceled": 2,
  "targeted": 12599,
  "script_id": 555,
  "script_name": "my-script.sh",
  "team_id": 123,
  "not_before": "2025-07-01T15:00:00Z",
  "completed_at": "2025-07-06T15:00:00Z",
  "status": "completed",

>   "cancelled": false

Reviewer 2: Same proposal as [here](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/pull/30443/files#r2252835670)

>   "cancelled": false

Author: ```suggestion
  "manually_cancelled": false
```

}
```

### List batch scripts

> TODO: API to list batch script executions. Paginated, with status filter (started, scheduled, completed).

TODO: Description text here.

`GET /api/v1/fleet/scripts/batch`

#### Parameters

| Name            | Type    | In   | Description                                                                                    |
| ----            | ------- | ---- | --------------------------------------------                                                   |
| team_id         | integer | query | _Available in Fleet Premium_. Filters to batch script runs for the specified team. |

> | status          | string  | query | Filters to batch script runs with this status. Either `"started"`, `"scheduled"`, or "`completed`". |

Reviewer: I think these are the same thing? That is, `status` here _is_ the status of a particular batch run.

| page            | integer | query | Page number of the results to fetch. |
| per_page        | integer | query | Results per page. |

#### Example

`GET /api/v1/fleet/scripts/batch`

##### Request body

```json
{
  "team_id": 123,
  "status": "completed"
}
```

##### Default response

`Status: 200`

```json
{
  "batch_executions": [
    {
      "ran": 12345,
      "pending": 234,
      "errored": 18,
      "incompatible": 3,
      "canceled": 2,
      "targeted": 12599,
      "script_id": 555,
      "script_name": "my-script.sh",
      "team_id": 123,
      "not_before": "2025-07-01T15:00:00Z",
      "completed_at": "2025-07-06T15:00:00Z",

>       "status": "completed",

Reviewer 2: [same proposal](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/pull/30443/files#r2252814540) here

>       "cancelled": false

Reviewer: or put `num_` in front of the properties that refer to #s of hosts -- that's [what I did in the db](https://github.com/fleetdm/fleet/pull/31508/files#diff-e290d24008d9dfa2e2c7b0b937e0b3cd0106030420fc84b24b602e53681963c0R24-R29)

    }
  ],
  "meta": {
    "has_next_results": false,
    "has_previous_results": false
  }
}
```

### List batch script results

> > TODO: API to list hosts & their results. Paginated, with status filter (ran, pending, errored, incompatible, canceled).

Reviewer: Should we just update the existing
```
GET /scripts/batch/summary/{batch_execution_id:[a-zA-Z0-9-]+}
```
endpoint, adding a new `hosts` property?  Then we could continue to use it for the popup, and if we deprecate the popup, nbd

### Cancel batch script

> > TODO: API to cancel all pending script executions from a batch run script.

Reviewer: `DELETE /scripts/batch/{batch_execution_id:[a-zA-Z0-9-]+}` ?

Reviewer: That's a good point. I don't think we'd ever allow un-cancelling, and the endpoint will be idempotent, but it's still not technically deleting anything. `POST /scripts/batch/{batch_execution_id:[a-zA-Z0-9-]+}/cancel` works.
